# Spotify-Song-Prediction
CONTENTS
Task :
Perform time-series analysis :
Recommend artists
Predict Popularity rating
Differentiate genres
Spotify Song Prediction
Audio features of 160k+ songs released in between 1921 and 2020
Task :
Perform time-series analysis :
Analyze the trends of songs over the course of a century

Task Details
The data.csv file is the least biased towards year of releases, because it is created using year queries, each with the same size of data. You can perform time-series analysis with minimal effort and minimal bias.

Expected Submission
In this task, you are expected to perform time-series analysis on "data.csv" data. You can work on visualizations or statistical analysis and even a forecast program for upcoming tracks in the next ten years. You can publish your solutions via a notebook.

Further help
If you need additional inspiration, check out:

How to perform time-series analysis, a well-explained article​

More on Spotify audio features, see docs​

Visualizations on matplotlib​

Recommend artists
Build a content-based recommendation engine which suggests artists

Task Details
This task is an extension for my currently working genre-based recommender system. I am mostly looking for ways to extend the whole system by implementing other features.

Expected Submission
Hereby, you are expected to create an all-features-inclusive (genre: optional) content-based recommendation system which takes from user a list of artists with their own user-defined ratings (e.g. 0-10 or 0-100 scoring) and returns the top results (e.g. top 5 or top 10). If you feel overwhelmed, build only a genre-based recommendation engine using linear algebra. At the end, you are supposed to submit your recommendation engine via a notebook. The complete list of tasks:

Decide on which features you want to include to your recommender system

Build your recommendation engine according to the expected criteria.

Evaluation
All engines returning reasonable results are well appreciated, there is no expected accuracy criteria. The only criteria is that you need to demonstrate your programming skills and your analytical thinking.

Further help
If you need additional inspiration, check out these sources:

​How a content-based recommender system works​

Search for unsupervised machine learning algorithms if necessary

See docs for additional information on Spotify audio features

Predict Popularity rating
Predict popularity of song based on other features

On the basis of current data, try analyzing which features play the most important role in determining the popularity of the song. Divide the popularity into 10 categories. And determine the rating outcome based on the other features.

Differentiate genres
Cluster different genres according to audio features

Task Details
I was dealing with the fact that there are too many genres to fully understand, so a more generalized approach was needed: Creating super-genres out of genres! In this task, you are expected to understand how clustering works, how a prediction is made, and the evaluation methods.

Expected Submission
In this task, the submission notebook should be clearly demonstrating:

Which clustering approach did you choose

Which hyperparameters did you tune (Optional)

How accurate your prediction is (Silhouette score)
Additionally, it is a lot fancier if you publish your super-genre groups via a json file. An exemplary json file seems like this:

{
1: [Genres type 1],
2: [Genres type 2],
…
}

Evaluation
There is a trade-off in this task: If the number of super-genres is too low, then the each group has too many genres, which is a problem. If the number of super-genres is nearly as high as genres, then there is no difference in using super-genres. Also, the silhouette score should be relatively high. (in between 0.5 and 1 is well appreciated)

Further help
If you need additional inspiration, check out:

How clustering works

Which clustering algorithms are for better use in which case

​Clustering using sklearn and sklearn.cluster module​

Data Set :
Get The Data Set :
spotify_data.zip
drive.google.com
Context
As a self-taught data scientist and music enthusiast, I always wanted to do some scientific research using Spotify Web API. Later as I found out that there was no up-to-date and large-scale dataset, I decided to create it on my own.

Content
The "data.csv" file contains more than 160.000 songs collected from Spotify Web API, and also you can find data grouped by artist, year, or genre in the data section.
More on Spotify audio features, click here
More on other Spotify track features, click here​

Primary:
- id (Id of track generated by Spotify)

Numerical:
- acousticness (Ranges from 0 to 1)

- danceability (Ranges from 0 to 1)

- energy (Ranges from 0 to 1)

- duration_ms (Integer typically ranging from 200k to 300k)

- instrumentalness (Ranges from 0 to 1)

- valence (Ranges from 0 to 1)

- popularity (Ranges from 0 to 100)

- tempo (Float typically ranging from 50 to 150)

- liveness (Ranges from 0 to 1)

- loudness (Float typically ranging from -60 to 0)

- speechiness (Ranges from 0 to 1)

- year (Ranges from 1921 to 2020)

Dummy:
- mode (0 = Minor, 1 = Major)

- explicit (0 = No explicit content, 1 = Explicit content)

Categorical:
- key (All keys on octave encoded as values ranging from 0 to 11, starting on C as 0, C# as 1 and so on…)

- artists (List of artists mentioned)

- release_date (Date of release mostly in yyyy-mm-dd format, however precision of date may vary)

- name (Name of the song)

Acknowledgements
We would thank to Spotify Developers website for creating a very good documentation for Spotify Web API, Spotipy (Python module for Spotify web servers) for making the requesting process more flexible.



